tn5250 README
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is an implementation of the 5250 telnet protocol.  It was originally an
implementation for Linux, but it has been reportedly compiled on a number
of other platforms.  Contributed keyboard maps and termcap entries for
FreeBSD are in this tarball as well (see freebsd/README for more information).

This, the 0.14.x series, has been substantially tested and a large amount of
effort has gone into fixing lots of bugs.  During the course of the 0.13.x
(developer-only) series, a lot of features were added to aid the developers
in tracking problems that happened only on strange platforms.

Building and Installing
=======================

To build the emulator simply type the following:

   ./configure
   make
   make install

Additional (but decidedly generic) installation instructions are available
in the file `INSTALL' included in this distribution.  Installation
instructions specific to your platform exist if you are using Linux or
FreeBSD -- they are in the linux/ and freebsd/ directories, respectively.
Please read these before telling us that the function keys don't work ;-)

The emulator uses the ncurses library for manipulating the console.  Make
sure you have the ncurses development libraries installed before trying to
compile the source.  There have been both reports of the standard BSD curses
working and not working, so you may have to install GNU curses (ncurses)
under *BSD.

X Windows
=========

To use the emulator under X Windows, use the provided `xt5250' shell script,
which sets up a standard `xterm' (it will *not* work with an `nxterm' or an 
`rxvt' terminal).  Additionally, you should do the following for each user:

  cat Xdefaults >> ~/.Xdefaults

To reload your .Xdefaults if X Windows is already running, do this:

  xrdb ~/.Xdefaults

This tells X Windows how to map keys to an xterm named `xt5250'.

There are two common problems which would cause xt5250 to flash once on the
screen then disapear.  If the termcap or terminfo entry for the `xterm-5250'
terminal type does not exist, the `xterm' will exit immediately.  If you
don't provide the host system name on the xt5250 command line, `tn5250' will
exit immediately.

Other Information
=================

Please send me any comments, questions, bug reports or patches. 

Michael Madore
mmadore@blarg.net
http://www.blarg.net/~mmadore
February 14th, 1999
